0.9.0 release notes (#55)
vegastrike/vegastrike.github.io: _posts/2025-04-03-vegastrike-0.9.0-release.md

possible.

As noted with the 0.8.0 release we have completely dropped support for Python2 and are 100% Python3 oriented. We have also
dropped providing builds with the LEGACY OpenGL support; however, support remains in the source code should anyone still
need it.

As part of updating the Vega Strike Engine we have started a journey to update how we store and load data. With the 0.9.0
release we have moved our a number of our data assets from defaulting to using a CSV format to now using a JSON format.
While the format is not as nice to use in tools like LibreOffice Calc or Microsoft Excel, this will help reduce errors and
make it easier to maintain the files.

Finally, our Vega Strike Engine API has been updated to Engine API 2 which moves some functionality to the Game Assets in
addition to the CSV to JSON file format changes.

As a reminder, the Vega Strike Engine application is available as `vegastrike-engine` which requires the `-D` parameter to specify
where to find the Game Assets. The `vegastrike` binary is still being provided at this time and it will continue to autofind the

> the assets like with previous versions. However, we strongly advise moving to the new `vegastrike-engine` binary and specifying

Reviewer: Doubled the word `the`

Author: fixed

> the parameter for the Game Assets as we will be dropping it in a future release.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the parameter for the Game Assets as we will be dropping the other binary in a future release.
```

Author: fixed, slightly differently

For a complete list of differences see [Vega Strike Engine Delta][vsedelta] and [Vega Strike: Upon the Coldest Sea Delta][vsutcsdelta].

## Want to help out?

There's a lot to do. We're working diligently to update Vega Strike. Version 0.10.0 is our next step along the line which will be
continuing to bring big improvements to the engine. We've already got several releases planned in the process of continuing to update
our dependencies and fix bugs; you can see our [Road Map][roadmap]. We need everything from coding, story development, art work,
documentation, and even just generally helping the community.

The development team is active at [Gitter.im][gitter] and we'd love to hear from you.

You can also find the community at the [Vega Strike Forums][forums].

## Where can I find the release?

[Vega Strike Engine 0.9.0][vse]
[Vega Strike: Upon the Coldest Sea 0.9.0][vsutcs]

> NOTE: Presently just the Linux builds are provided. The Vega Strike Team is still working to restore Mac and Windows support.

Reviewer: Omit this sentence.

Author: good catch.

Author: removed

> [sf]: https://sourceforge.net/projects/vegastrike/

Reviewer: Can probably omit this as well. As far as I can tell, this link isn't actually used anywhere.

Author: yeah, I think I had it in there prior for the 0.5.3 releases that are still hosted there which I'm no longer referencing since we now have Windows/Mac support

Author: removed
